Hey!  Emacs!  Yo!  This is -*- Text -*- !!!

This GNU tar 1.11.1.  Please send bug reports, etc., to
bug-gnu-utils@prep.ai.mit.edu.  This is a beta-test release.  Please
try it out.  After bug reports are processed for this release, version
1.12 will be released.  This release includes only bugfixes past
version 1.11, most of which are fairly important.

GNU tar is based heavily on John Gilmore's public domain tar, but with
added features.  The manual is currently being written.  An old
manual, surely riddled with errors, is in tar.texinfo.  Please don't
send in bug reports about that manual.  In particular, the mechanism
for doing incremental dumps has been significantly changed.

This distribution also includes rmt, the remote tape server (which
normally must reside in /etc).  The mt tape drive control program is
in the GNU cpio distribution.

See the file INSTALL for compilation and installation instructions for Unix.
See the file NEWS for information on all that is new in this version
of tar.

makefile.pc is a makefile for Turbo C 2.0 on MS-DOS.

Various people have been having problems using floppies on a NeXT.  In
order to have them work right, you need to kill the automounting
program which tries to monut floppies as soon as they are added.

If you want to do incremental dumps, use the distributed backup
scripts.  They are what we use at the FSF to do all our backups.  Most
importantly, do not use --incremental (-G) or --after-date (-N) or
--newer-mtime to do incremental dumps.  The only option that works
correctly for this purpose is --listed-incremental.  (When extracting
incremental dumps, use --incremental (-G).)

There is no tar manual in this release.  The old manual has too many
problems to make it usable.  A new manual will appear in version 1.12.

If your system needs to link with -lPW to get alloca, but has
rename in the C library (so HAVE_RENAME is defined), -lPW might
give you an incorrect version of rename.  On HP-UX this manifests
itself as an undefined data symbol called "Error" when linking cp, ln,
and mv.  If this happens, use `ar x' to extract alloca.o from libPW.a
and `ar rc' to put it in a library liballoca.a, and put that in LIBS
instead of -lPW.  This problem does not occur when using gcc, which
has alloca built in.

